Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture you're going to have a look at our parameters.
This is something new to us and it should be quite intuitive how they work.
However there's a bit of a gotcha to them.
So basically at this point in time we need to count up our bulls and cows and that will pretty much
complete our game.
Now there are a couple of ways that we could do this.
We could use a struct or a u struct or indeed we could also use member variables.
Now I do say we could use member variables that would actually be quite bad practice in this particular
case.
So we were actually demonstrate this but when we get to using a struct in the next lecture you'll see
that we could use them because structures are very similar to classes and we in this lecture are going
to use out parameters.
There's some pros and real uses them.
It avoids creating unneeded copies.
That's good.
However they're separate from the assignment and there's a greater chance of variables not being initialized
before being read which results in problems.
When we compile our code or even run our code potentially one of the biggest things here is you have
to read documentation or prefix your parameter names to signal that they are out parameters.
However unreal doesn't necessarily do that.
So just doing it yourself is great but being able to identify them otherwise is even better.
Now member variables pretty much they're just not out parameters you don't have to rely on documentation
or prefixes and in general it's not great designers it's not really parts of the class itself.
And then finally a structure a stroke.
The great thing about those is they are self documenting and you can join the declaration and assignment
together.
But let's go over to the U.S. code now and have a closer look at how our parameters work.
Let's go ahead and first of all start off by creating our new function over in our header file.
Okay.
So first of all what is it going to return.
Well the way that this is going to work is because we have out parameters it's going to return nothing
in this particular case.
Now that's not to say you can't have a function that returns something and has our parameters as well
but for the time being this is going to return nothing.
The name we're going to give it is get ball cows and then we need to pass in some parameters.
So we're going to take in the players guess and as before we're not going to change that guest so it
can be a constant f string reference.
And of course we're going to document that by saying it's the gas.
So now we can think about our out parameters.
So they are both going to be in 32.
We're going to have an in 32 bulls or bull count and we're going to have an int 32 which is a cow count.
I think those are good names for them in this specific enough that we know what they refer to at the
moment.
These are parameters that we are passing him by value which means we're taking a copy.
However if we make them references but do not make them contact references they will be out parameters.
And this is one of the key identifiers when it comes to outer parameters the fact that it has not been
written as a constant reference.
It's just a reference.
Now this may be someone not being as rigid with their code however it's a good indication that that
is the case.
And we'll see in a moment in the implementation.
Another giveaway that we're going to be using our parameters.
So the final thing to say here is is the get bull cows going to change the lives the game over the hidden
word or the Isiah grounds.
The likelihood is no.
So let's go ahead and make it a contest function.
Excellent we're going to save that now and go over into a bull cow cartridge C.P. Pete.
OK so let's scroll down here where do we go ahead and call this the first time.
So this is where we're going to be calling that code and then we're going to have some lines to print
out here.
So first of all let's go ahead and declare to in 30 2s called bulls and cows which we are deliberately
not initializing and then we're going to go ahead and get bull cows and I don't think this is going
to auto complete this.
Oh yes there we go.
It is.
And we're going to pass into it the gas the Bulls and the cows.
Now notice here let's have a tiny bit of white space here.
Now notice that we are declaring two variables but not initializing and then immediately using them
in a function this is another sign that these are going to be out parameters.
And of course this is one of the things the highlights unless we actually initialize these within the
function.
They will be on initialized variables.
So we may end up with garbage if we're not careful.
And I'd say this is one of the key reasons not to use out parameters where possible.
The final thing that we will want to do is print line and then the text macro and we will want to say
you have.
And then the format specify for an integer bowls and the format specified again and then cowls and then
here we can go ahead and say we're going to use the bulls and cows.
So our code is pretty much complete there.
In terms of using that function.
So that's good.
However what we've not written yet is the get bull cows.
So let's go down and start doing that.
So it's a void function as we've done before.
And then we need our new Bull Cal cartridge hopefully have spelt that correctly.
Colon colon R Yes Get bull cows.
Brilliant.
I love it when autocomplete comes together.
So what are we passing into this function well we're passing in the gas.
So that's going to be a const f string guess which is absolutely fine.
And remember it is a reference to the gas that we're passing in and then we're going to have our bulls
and cows.
So it's going to be an int 32 for the bull count and then again another in 32 reference for the cow
count.
Brilliant.
Let's work on the body here.
So what are we going to do.
We are going to go ahead and first of all prevent these being assigned to anything.
So we're going to set the bull count to zero and then the cow counts also to zero now because we've
initialized the those both to zero.
What that will mean is as we run our code if there are no bulls and are no cows we're guaranteed to
get zero coming back.
OK.
So let's pseudo code here before we go ahead and do anything else.
So we're going to say here if the index of what we looking at here the gas is same as index of the hidden
world then the bull count is going to be plus plus.
Now this this is quite an interesting thing how I've said if realistically we're going to use something
like a for loop.
So for every index guess is the same as a bull cow count that's fine.
And then we need to do it on that and it's not a bull cow count we need to then say well is it's a cow
instead.
So if not a bull was it a cow.
If yes Carol counts plus plus.
OK.
That's pretty much what we want to do.
Otherwise we're just going to continue going around the loop and going to the next one.
So let's start off this.
And then I will get you to finish it in our challenge.
So we're going to start with a for loop.
So we're going to be iterating around the word itself.
So in 32 and then I'm going to call this the guess index you can call it something else if you want
but we're going through.
Why am I setting it like that.
You can call it something else but I think we're looking at the guess index was setting it to zero which
is absolutely fine.
And then here where are we going to where we're going to go to the guess and then we're going to call
the length function on that so we can have the entire length of the word excellent.
And then the code that we're going to do here so we can just say that if so we're going to look at the
guess first of all and then the guess index which is initially going to be 0 and we're going to say
is it the same as the hidden word.
And again at the same index if it is then all we need to do is the bull count plus plus Excellent.
OK.
So that's the easy if statement done you wouldn't have guessed that I'll be leaving you with a more
complex one.
Now something to bear in mind his.
We've got two options.
We can now do.
We can now do an else down here.
That's absolutely fine.
Or instead of having that extra level of nesting we can simply go continue.
And what this does is it will skip to the end of the enclosing for loop for us if it finds a bull then
it's just going to increment and go through the next letter and then down here we can start our not
new for loop.
Now this new for loop is going to have to iterate starting at the gas index.
Well is this letter the same as any other letter in our word.
So we're gonna have to have a new index that we iterate around for every other letter of the word.
And that leads us nicely onto your challenge okay see your challenge.
Well create the new for loops iterate around the rest of the letters of our hit and word.
And if you find one that's the same increment the cow count pulls video now and give that a go Okay
everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and create this new for loops iterate around the rest of the letters okay.
I'm just gonna type that for again so I'd get the auto complete to come in.
Okay.
So this is where we're going to have another 32 but we're going to call it something different this
time I'm going to call it the hidden index.
Be interested to hear what you call it because we're getting around the hidden word.
I think that's an appropriate word for it.
And now where do we go up to.
Well I'm going to go up to the hidden word dot Lang now.
I think because we're talking about the hidden word it's probably best that we stick with the hidden
word length.
So this is where we're going to say if the guess that we're looking at at the gas index now this is
where we have our two separate indices that we're going around.
So the gas index is going to remain at zero as we go through here providing we haven't got a bull that's
absolutely fine.
And then we're going to compare it against the hidden word hidden index.
And if that works we will simply do cow counts milk cow counts plus plus I will save my coat there.
So we're still comparing on this particular iteration the first letter of our gas against the first
that survived and words it's technically we could actually start the hidden index at one in a few moments
when I run my game I realize I should have left this at 0.
So don't follow along with me at this point.
Leave it as zero.
And then we're going to go all the way up to the hidden word length.
I think that's fine.
Then we're going to increment the hidden index that should be okay.
Let's tidy up some whitespace here.
Well let's not delete random brackets okay.
Perfect.
So all being well that should work.
Going to save my code here and see whether it works.
Okay.
Let's just go up.
Ah okay.
One thing here I've forgotten.
Remember that's your declaration this is a constant declaration up here.
Then we're going to have to make sure it's here.
Otherwise we're defining something that hasn't been declared.
Brilliant.
I'm glad I spotted that otherwise that could have been embarrassing.
Let's go ahead and click compile.
OK.
Brilliant.
So we can see that the compiles complete swim.
Go ahead and press play now.
So the hit word is wife.
Excellent.
So if I go w e f i we have two bowls and two cows.
Is that correct.
Yes.
We've got the F and the W in the right place.
Brilliant.
How about if we just do it backwards so w sorry e f i w we have three cows.
No we should have four cows.
Interesting.
So part of our code that isn't working as expected.
Now I think I know what it is.
Well let's go back and have a look at our code and it's probably my thoughts here going wrong because
if we do still need to compare the first one against the first one because it could be the same as something
else.
Mm hmm.
Let's go back press compile and this time its remains.
So let's type everything in backwards so n I a m e are six cows perfect.
It's working there silly of me to think that's not including the first one but there we go.
So that is all working.
So let's just go have a look at that quickly because the one thing I was thinking of when I was looking
through my code is that the debug line I think using ult and the up arrow I'm going to put it next to
the head and word itself it kind of stands out as something you would have together I'm not going to
leave for extra whitespace there.
OK I'm going to save my work there.
Excellent.
So I think we've got ourselves a complete and working game.
Obviously if you were now to share this then you'd probably want to comment about that debug line or
otherwise it wouldn't be that interesting to play when you get your lives hit and word length perhaps
a hidden word length times by to you know make it a bit easier for someone to play.
I know that I'm pretty rubbish at these games but they're also so little things you can do like that.
Now of course when it comes to sharing your work I'd love to see what you've come up with.
Please share it's over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.